this wonderful eggs benedict recipe was
submitted by one of our all recipes
members who comments hot buttered
English muffins canadian-style bacon and
poached eggs are topped by a heavenly
drizzle of hollandaise sauce wonderful
for Easter Mother's Day or any time you
want to treat yourself to the best
brunch of the world served with roasted
potatoes for mopping up the extra egg
yolk and hollandaise we'll begin by
making hollandaise sauce
first separate four eggs
next juice two to three lemons to make
three and a half tablespoons of fresh
juice
we'll need a double boiler or if you
don't have one fit a medium metal bowl
into a larger pot to make a tight fit
fill the bottom pot partway with water
making sure that water doesn't touch the
top pan bring the water to a gentle
simmer while the water comes to a simmer
put a cup of butter into a small
saucepan and melt it over low heat put
the four yolks into the top of the
double boiler and whisk them together
then whisk in three and a half
tablespoons of fresh lemon juice
a pinch of white pepper
an eighth of a teaspoon of
Worcestershire sauce and a tablespoon of
water slowly add in the melted butter
about one or two tablespoons at a time
while whisking the mixture constantly if
the hollandaise sauce begins to get too
thick whisk in a teaspoon or two of hot
water continue whisking until all of the
butter is incorporated remove the pan
from the heat then whisk in a quarter
teaspoon of salt
place the lid on the pan to keep the
sauce warm arrange the oven rack so it's
four to six inches from the heating
element
and preheat the oven to broil heat eight
rounds of Canadian bacon in a skillet
over medium-high heat
flip them to heat them through
and turn off the heat and cover the pan
to keep the bacon warm next we're going
to poach the eggs begin by filling a
large saucepan with three inches of
water bring the water to a gentle simmer
then add a teaspoon of distilled white
vinegar the vinegar helps to firm the
egg whites faster so the eggs will hold
together better making a neater rounder
shape carefully break an egg into the
simmering water some members recommend
that you first break each egg into a
small cup or bowl then slip it into the
water for easier handling like this
poach two eggs per serving nurse the
edges back toward the yolk with a
slotted spoon
they will take two and a half to three
minutes to cook
while the eggs are poaching split one
English muffin per serving
broil them until they're toasty and
golden-brown when the eggs are ready the
whites will be solid but the yolks will
still be soft in the center remove the
eggs from the water and set them on a
warm plate lined with paper towels to
drain any excess water
then chop some fresh chives until you
have about two tablespoons and set them
aside to serve the eggs benedict arrange
half of an English muffin on a serving
plate and spread it with some softened
butter
top the muffin half with a slice of
bacon then a poached egg
lastly reconstitute the hollandaise
sauce by adding a tablespoon or so of
hot water and whisking it again ladle
the sauce over the poached egg
sprinkle it with some of the chopped
chives and serve it still warm some
members commented that they like their
eggs benedict with a spicy kick and add
a couple drops of Sri Racha or hot sauce
to the hollandaise sauce instead of the
worst to share either way it's hard to
beat the classic brunch specialty
especially when you make it at home